parameters:
  - gene: LGALS14
  - context: cancer cell-lines

simulation:
  - step: 1
    level: molecular
    facts: LGALS14, also known as galectin-14, is a member of the galectin family, which are proteins that bind to β-galactoside sugars and are involved in various cellular processes, including cell adhesion, cell signaling, and immune response [1]. Galectins have been implicated in cancer progression, with some members promoting tumor growth and metastasis, while others have tumor-suppressive effects [2]. However, there is limited information available on the specific role of LGALS14 in cancer.
    entities: LGALS14, galectin family, cancer cell-lines
    assumptions: Based on the limited information available on LGALS14, we assume that its role in cancer cell-lines is not well understood.
    consequence: unknown role of LGALS14 in cancer cell-lines
    probability: 100
    explanation: Due to the lack of information on LGALS14's specific role in cancer, it is currently unknown whether it is essential in cancer cell-lines.
    novelty: 0

  - step: 2
    level: cellular
    facts: Essential genes are those that are critical for the survival and growth of an organism or cell type [3]. In cancer cell-lines, essential genes are often involved in processes such as cell proliferation, survival, and metabolism [4]. To determine if LGALS14 is essential in cancer cell-lines, we would need to investigate its involvement in these critical processes.
    entities: essential genes, cell proliferation, cell survival, metabolism
    assumptions: We assume that LGALS14's involvement in critical cellular processes in cancer cell-lines is not well understood.
    consequence: potential involvement of LGALS14 in critical cellular processes in cancer cell-lines
    probability: 50
    explanation: Given the limited information on LGALS14, it is uncertain whether it is involved in critical cellular processes in cancer cell-lines, making it difficult to determine its essentiality.
    novelty: 0

conclusion:
  outcome: unlikely
  explanation: Due to the limited information available on LGALS14 and its role in cancer cell-lines, it is currently unlikely that LGALS14 is essential in cancer cell-lines. However, further research is needed to confirm this conclusion.

references:
  "[1]": "Liu FT, Rabinovich GA. 2005. Annual Review of Immunology. Galectins: Regulators of acute and chronic inflammation."
  "[2]": "Rabinovich GA, Croci DO. 2012. Nature Reviews Immunology. Regulatory circuits mediated by lectin-glycan interactions in autoimmunity and cancer."
  "[3]": "Hart T, Moffat J. 2016. Nature Reviews Genetics. BAGEL: a computational framework for identifying essential genes from pooled library screens."
  "[4]": "Blomen VA, Májek P, Jae LT, Bigenzahn JW, Nieuwenhuis J, Staring J, Sacco R, van Diemen FR, Olk N, Stukalov A, Marceau C, Janssen H, Carette JE, Bennett KL, Colinge J, Superti-Furga G, Brummelkamp TR. 2015. Science. Gene essentiality and synthetic lethality in haploid human cells."