parameters:
  - gene: DHX16
  - context: cancer cell-lines

simulation:
  - step: 1
    level: molecular
    facts: DHX16 encodes a member of the DEAH-box family of RNA helicases, which are involved in various cellular processes, including RNA splicing, ribosome biogenesis, and translation initiation [1]. The role of DHX16 in cancer is not well-established, but RNA helicases have been implicated in cancer development and progression [2].
    entities: DHX16, RNA helicases, RNA splicing, ribosome biogenesis, translation initiation
    assumptions: Given the involvement of RNA helicases in cellular processes and their potential role in cancer, we assume that DHX16 may have a role in cancer cell-lines.
    consequence: potential involvement of DHX16 in cancer cell-lines
    probability: 50
    explanation: The involvement of RNA helicases in cellular processes and their potential role in cancer suggests that DHX16 may have a role in cancer cell-lines, but the specific role of DHX16 in cancer is not well-established.
    novelty: 50

  - step: 2
    level: cellular
    facts: Essential genes are those that are required for the survival or reproduction of an organism or cell [3]. In cancer cell-lines, essential genes are often involved in processes that are critical for cell survival, such as DNA replication, cell division, and metabolism [4].
    entities: essential genes, DNA replication, cell division, metabolism
    assumptions: We assume that if DHX16 is essential in cancer cell-lines, it would be involved in critical cellular processes.
    consequence: potential involvement of DHX16 in critical cellular processes in cancer cell-lines
    probability: 50
    explanation: The potential involvement of DHX16 in cancer cell-lines, as suggested in step 1, may indicate its involvement in critical cellular processes, but the specific role of DHX16 in cancer is not well-established.
    novelty: 50

conclusion:
  outcome: unlikely
  explanation: While DHX16 is a member of the RNA helicase family and may have a role in cancer cell-lines, its specific role in cancer is not well-established. Therefore, it is unlikely that DHX16 is essential in cancer cell-lines.

references:
  "[1]": "Gorbalenya AE, Koonin EV. 1993. Nucleic Acids Research. Helicases: amino acid sequence comparisons and structure-function relationships."
  "[2]": "Fuller-Pace FV. 2013. Nature Reviews Cancer. DEAD box RNA helicase functions in cancer."
  "[3]": "Hart T, Moffat J. 2016. Nature Reviews Genetics. BAGEL: a computational framework for identifying essential genes from pooled library screens."
  "[4]": "Blomen VA, Májek P, Jae LT, Bigenzahn JW, Nieuwenhuis J, Staring J, Sacco R, van Diemen FR, Olk N, Stukalov A, Marceau C, Janssen H, Carette JE, Bennett KL, Colinge J, Superti-Furga G, Brummelkamp TR. 2015. Science. Gene essentiality and synthetic lethality in haploid human cells."