parameters:
  - gene: PSMA7
  - context: cancer cell-lines

simulation:
  - step: 1
    level: molecular
    facts: PSMA7 encodes a subunit of the proteasome, a large protein complex responsible for the degradation of intracellular proteins [1]. The proteasome plays a crucial role in maintaining cellular homeostasis by regulating protein turnover and quality control [2]. Proteasome inhibition has been shown to be an effective strategy for cancer therapy, as it can induce apoptosis in cancer cells [3].
    entities: PSMA7, proteasome
    assumptions: PSMA7 is involved in the proteasome function, and proteasome inhibition can have anti-cancer effects.
    consequence: decreased PSMA7 expression may lead to impaired proteasome function in cancer cell-lines
    probability: 80
    explanation: Given the role of PSMA7 in the proteasome and the importance of the proteasome in cancer cell survival, it is likely that decreased PSMA7 expression would impair proteasome function in cancer cell-lines.
    novelty: 0

  - step: 2
    level: cellular
    facts: Proteasome inhibition can lead to the accumulation of misfolded and damaged proteins, which can cause endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress and trigger the unfolded protein response (UPR) [4]. The UPR can lead to cell cycle arrest and apoptosis if the stress is not resolved [5].
    entities: proteasome inhibition, ER stress, UPR, cell cycle arrest, apoptosis
    assumptions: Impaired proteasome function due to decreased PSMA7 expression may cause ER stress and UPR activation in cancer cell-lines.
    consequence: activation of UPR and potential cell cycle arrest or apoptosis in cancer cell-lines with impaired proteasome function
    probability: 70
    explanation: The accumulation of misfolded and damaged proteins due to impaired proteasome function can lead to ER stress and UPR activation, which may result in cell cycle arrest or apoptosis in cancer cell-lines.
    novelty: 0

conclusion:
  outcome: likely
  explanation: Based on the role of PSMA7 in the proteasome and the importance of the proteasome in cancer cell survival, it is likely that PSMA7 is essential in cancer cell-lines. Impaired proteasome function due to decreased PSMA7 expression may lead to ER stress, UPR activation, and potential cell cycle arrest or apoptosis in cancer cell-lines.

references:
  "[1]": "Tomko RJ Jr, Hochstrasser M. 2013. Molecular Biology and Evolution. Molecular architecture and assembly of the eukaryotic proteasome."
  "[2]": "Ciechanover A, Kwon YT. 2015. Nature Reviews Molecular Cell Biology. Protein quality control by molecular chaperones in neurodegeneration."
  "[3]": "Adams J. 2004. Nature Reviews Cancer. The proteasome: a suitable antineoplastic target."
  "[4]": "Walter P, Ron D. 2011. Nature Reviews Molecular Cell Biology. The unfolded protein response: from stress pathway to homeostatic regulation."
  "[5]": "Tabas I, Ron D. 2011. Nature Cell Biology. Integrating the mechanisms of apoptosis induced by endoplasmic reticulum stress."