parameters:
  - RPL7A gene
  - cancer cell-lines

simulation:
  - step: 1
    level: molecular
    facts: RPL7A (ribosomal protein L7a) is a component of the 60S subunit of the ribosome, which is involved in protein synthesis [1]. Ribosomal proteins have been implicated in various cellular processes, including cell proliferation, apoptosis, and DNA repair [2]. Some ribosomal proteins have been reported to be overexpressed in cancer cells and contribute to tumorigenesis [3].
    entities: RPL7A, ribosome, 60S subunit, protein synthesis, cell proliferation, apoptosis, DNA repair, cancer cells
    assumptions: RPL7A is involved in protein synthesis as a component of the ribosome. Its role in cancer cell-lines may be related to cell proliferation, apoptosis, or DNA repair.
    consequence: altered RPL7A expression in cancer cell-lines
    probability: 80
    explanation: Given the involvement of ribosomal proteins in various cellular processes and their overexpression in cancer cells, it is likely that RPL7A expression may be altered in cancer cell-lines.
    novelty: 20

  - step: 2
    level: cellular
    facts: Essential genes are those that are required for the survival of an organism or cell [4]. In cancer cell-lines, essential genes may be necessary for the survival and proliferation of cancer cells. The CRISPR-Cas9 system has been used to identify essential genes in cancer cell-lines [5].
    entities: essential genes, survival, cancer cell-lines, CRISPR-Cas9 system
    assumptions: If RPL7A is essential in cancer cell-lines, its loss or inhibition should lead to reduced survival or proliferation of cancer cells.
    consequence: reduced survival or proliferation of cancer cells upon RPL7A loss or inhibition
    probability: 60
    explanation: If RPL7A is essential in cancer cell-lines, its loss or inhibition should negatively impact the survival or proliferation of cancer cells. However, the exact role of RPL7A in cancer cell-lines is not well-established.
    novelty: 40

conclusion:
  outcome: likely
  explanation: Based on the involvement of RPL7A in protein synthesis and the potential role of ribosomal proteins in cancer cell proliferation, apoptosis, and DNA repair, it is likely that RPL7A is essential in cancer cell-lines. However, further experimental evidence is needed to confirm this hypothesis.

references:
  "[1]": "Wool, I. G. (1996). The Journal of Biological Chemistry. The structure and function of eukaryotic ribosomes."
  "[2]": "Xue, S., & Barna, M. (2012). Nature Reviews Molecular Cell Biology. Specialized ribosomes: a new frontier in gene regulation and organismal biology."
  "[3]": "Pelletier, J., Thomas, G., & Volarević, S. (2018). Nature Reviews Cancer. Ribosome biogenesis in cancer: new players and therapeutic avenues."
  "[4]": "Hart, T., & Moffat, J. (2016). Nature Reviews Genetics. BAGEL: a computational framework for identifying essential genes from pooled library screens."
  "[5]": "Shalem, O., Sanjana, N. E., & Zhang, F. (2015). Nature Reviews Genetics. High-throughput functional genomics using CRISPR-Cas9."