parameters:
  - gene: HNRNPK
  - context: cancer cell-lines

simulation:
  - step: 1
    level: molecular
    facts: HNRNPK (heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoprotein K) is a multifunctional protein involved in various cellular processes, including transcription, translation, and mRNA stability [1]. It has been reported to be overexpressed in various cancer types, such as breast, lung, and colorectal cancers [2]. HNRNPK has been shown to regulate the expression of genes involved in cell proliferation, apoptosis, and metastasis [3].
    entities: HNRNPK, cancer cell-lines
    assumptions: HNRNPK is overexpressed in cancer cell-lines and plays a role in regulating genes involved in cancer-related processes.
    consequence: HNRNPK overexpression contributes to cancer cell survival and proliferation.
    probability: 80
    explanation: The overexpression of HNRNPK in various cancer types and its involvement in regulating cancer-related genes suggest that it may play a crucial role in cancer cell survival and proliferation.
    novelty: 20

  - step: 2
    level: cellular
    facts: Essential genes are those that are required for the survival of an organism or cell [4]. In cancer cell-lines, essential genes are often involved in processes that are critical for cancer cell survival and proliferation [5]. HNRNPK has been shown to regulate genes involved in cell proliferation, apoptosis, and metastasis [3].
    entities: HNRNPK, cancer cell-lines, essential genes
    assumptions: HNRNPK is involved in critical processes for cancer cell survival and proliferation.
    consequence: HNRNPK is likely essential in cancer cell-lines.
    probability: 75
    explanation: Given HNRNPK's involvement in regulating genes critical for cancer cell survival and proliferation, it is likely that it is essential in cancer cell-lines.
    novelty: 20

conclusion:
  outcome: likely
  explanation: Based on the simulation, HNRNPK is likely essential in cancer cell-lines due to its involvement in regulating genes critical for cancer cell survival and proliferation.

references:
  "[1]": "Bomsztyk K, Denisenko O, Ostrowski J. 2004. Nucleic Acids Res. Heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoprotein K: an abundant, conserved, and essential pre-mRNA-binding protein."
  "[2]": "Carpenter B, McKay M, Dundas SR, Lawrie LC, Telfer C, Murray GI. 2006. Br J Cancer. Heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoprotein K is over expressed, aberrantly localised and is associated with poor prognosis in colorectal cancer."
  "[3]": "Barboro P, Ferrari N, Balbi C. 2014. Cell Death Dis. Emerging roles of heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoprotein K (hnRNP K) in cancer progression."
  "[4]": "Hart T, Chandrashekhar M, Aregger M, Steinhart Z, Brown KR, MacLeod G, Mis M, Zimmermann M, Fradet-Turcotte A, Sun S, Mero P, Dirks P, Sidhu S, Roth FP, Rissland OS, Durocher D, Angers S, Moffat J. 2015. Science. High-Resolution CRISPR Screens Reveal Fitness Genes and Genotype-Specific Cancer Liabilities."
  "[5]": "Meyers RM, Bryan JG, McFarland JM, Weir BA, Sizemore AE, Xu H, Dharia NV, Montgomery PG, Cowley GS, Pantel S, Goodale A, Lee Y, Ali LD, Jiang G, Lubonja R, Harrington WF, Strickland M, Wu T, Hawes DC, Zhivich VA, Wyatt MR, Kalani Z, Chang JJ, Okamoto M, Stegmaier K, Golub TR, Boehm JS, Vazquez F, Root DE, Hahn WC, Tsherniak A. 2017. Cell. Computational correction of copy number effect improves specificity of CRISPR-Cas9 essentiality screens in cancer cells."