simulation:
  - step: 1
    level: molecular
    consequence: SUPT16H expression in cancer cell lines
    probability: 100
    explanation: SUPT16H is a gene that encodes for a subunit of the FACT complex, which is involved in chromatin remodeling and transcription elongation. It is expressed in various cell types, including cancer cell lines.

  - step: 2
    level: molecular
    consequence: FACT complex formation
    probability: 90
    explanation: The SUPT16H protein, along with SSRP1, forms the FACT complex. This complex is essential for the regulation of gene expression, particularly in rapidly dividing cells such as cancer cells.

  - step: 3
    level: cellular
    consequence: chromatin remodeling and transcription regulation
    probability: 90
    explanation: The FACT complex, which includes the SUPT16H protein, plays a crucial role in chromatin remodeling and transcription regulation. This allows for the efficient expression of genes required for cell growth and division, which is particularly important in cancer cells.

  - step: 4
    level: cellular
    consequence: cancer cell proliferation
    probability: 85
    explanation: The efficient expression of genes involved in cell growth and division, facilitated by the FACT complex, contributes to the rapid proliferation of cancer cells. As a component of the FACT complex, SUPT16H is likely to play a role in this process.

  - step: 5
    level: organism
    consequence: cancer progression
    probability: 80
    explanation: The rapid proliferation of cancer cells, driven in part by the activity of the FACT complex and its components like SUPT16H, can lead to cancer progression and the development of more aggressive tumors.

conclusion:
  outcome: likely
  explanation: Given the role of SUPT16H in the formation of the FACT complex, which is involved in chromatin remodeling and transcription regulation, and its contribution to cancer cell proliferation and cancer progression, it is likely that SUPT16H is essential in cancer cell lines.