parameters:
  - wild type mouse
  - cyanide injection

simulation:
  - step: 1
    level: molecular
    facts: Cyanide is a potent inhibitor of cytochrome c oxidase (complex IV) in the electron transport chain (ETC) of mitochondria, which is essential for cellular respiration and ATP production [1]. Inhibition of complex IV leads to a decrease in ATP production and an increase in reactive oxygen species (ROS) [2].
    entities: cyanide, cytochrome c oxidase, electron transport chain, mitochondria, ATP, reactive oxygen species
    assumptions: The injected cyanide reaches the mitochondria and inhibits cytochrome c oxidase.
    consequence: decreased ATP production and increased ROS levels
    probability: 95
    explanation: Cyanide's known mechanism of action is the inhibition of cytochrome c oxidase, which leads to decreased ATP production and increased ROS levels [1,2].
    novelty: 0

  - step: 2
    level: cellular
    facts: Decreased ATP production leads to energy depletion in cells, impairing essential cellular processes and functions [3]. Increased ROS levels can cause oxidative stress, leading to damage of cellular components, including proteins, lipids, and DNA [4].
    entities: ATP, cellular processes, reactive oxygen species, oxidative stress, proteins, lipids, DNA
    assumptions: The decreased ATP production and increased ROS levels affect cellular processes and cause oxidative stress.
    consequence: impaired cellular processes and functions, oxidative stress, and cellular damage
    probability: 90
    explanation: The decrease in ATP production impairs cellular processes and functions, while the increase in ROS levels causes oxidative stress and cellular damage [3,4].
    novelty: 0

  - step: 3
    level: organ
    facts: The brain and heart are highly sensitive to ATP depletion and oxidative stress due to their high energy demand and limited capacity for anaerobic metabolism [5]. Cyanide poisoning can lead to rapid onset of seizures, loss of consciousness, and cardiac arrest [6].
    entities: brain, heart, ATP depletion, oxidative stress, seizures, loss of consciousness, cardiac arrest
    assumptions: The impaired cellular processes, oxidative stress, and cellular damage affect the brain and heart.
    consequence: rapid onset of seizures, loss of consciousness, and cardiac arrest
    probability: 85
    explanation: The brain and heart are highly sensitive to ATP depletion and oxidative stress, which can lead to rapid onset of seizures, loss of consciousness, and cardiac arrest [5,6].
    novelty: 0

conclusion:
  outcome: rapid onset of seizures, loss of consciousness, and cardiac arrest
  explanation: Cyanide injection inhibits cytochrome c oxidase, leading to decreased ATP production and increased ROS levels. This impairs cellular processes and functions, causing oxidative stress and cellular damage, particularly in the brain and heart. The final outcome is the rapid onset of seizures, loss of consciousness, and cardiac arrest.

references:
  "[1]": "Nicholls P, Kim JK. 1982. Biochimica et Biophysica Acta (BBA) - Bioenergetics. Sulphide as an inhibitor and electron donor for the cytochrome c oxidase system."
  "[2]": "Brown GC, Borutaite V. 2004. Biochemical Society Transactions. Inhibition of mitochondrial respiratory complex I by nitric oxide, peroxynitrite and S-nitrosothiols."
  "[3]": "Alberts B, Johnson A, Lewis J, et al. 2002. Molecular Biology of the Cell. 4th edition. New York: Garland Science. Energy Conversion: Mitochondria and Chloroplasts."
  "[4]": "Lobo V, Patil A, Phatak A, Chandra N. 2010. Pharmacognosy Reviews. Free radicals, antioxidants and functional foods: Impact on human health."
  "[5]": "Siesjo BK. 1992. Journal of Cerebral Blood Flow & Metabolism. Pathophysiology and treatment of focal cerebral ischemia. Part I: Pathophysiology."
  "[6]": "Baud FJ. 2007. Critical Care. Cyanide: critical issues in diagnosis and treatment."