parameters:
  - age: 59
  - cancer_stage: III
  - cancer_type: colon adenocarcinoma
  - tumor_location: rectum
  - differentiation: moderately differentiated
  - metastasis: yes
  - carcinomatosis: no
  - treatment: optimal standard of care

simulation:
  - step: 1
    level: molecular
    facts: The RAS-RAF-MEK-ERK pathway is often dysregulated in colon adenocarcinoma, leading to increased cell proliferation and survival [1]. Moderately differentiated tumors have intermediate levels of differentiation and are associated with intermediate prognosis [2].
    entities: RAS, RAF, MEK, ERK, cell proliferation, cell survival
    assumptions: The patient's tumor has molecular alterations in the RAS-RAF-MEK-ERK pathway, contributing to tumor growth and metastasis.
    consequence: decreased responsiveness to some targeted therapies
    probability: 70
    explanation: Dysregulation of the RAS-RAF-MEK-ERK pathway can lead to decreased responsiveness to some targeted therapies [3].
    novelty: 0

  - step: 2
    level: cellular
    facts: Tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes (TILs) are associated with better prognosis in colorectal cancer [4]. Moderately differentiated tumors may have intermediate levels of TILs.
    entities: tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes (TILs)
    assumptions: The patient's tumor has an intermediate level of TILs, which may contribute to the tumor's response to treatment.
    consequence: intermediate responsiveness to immunotherapy
    probability: 60
    explanation: The presence of TILs can enhance the effectiveness of immunotherapy, and an intermediate level of TILs may result in intermediate responsiveness to immunotherapy [4].
    novelty: 0

  - step: 3
    level: tissue
    facts: Tumor microenvironment (TME) plays a crucial role in cancer progression and response to therapy [5]. Moderately differentiated tumors may have intermediate levels of stromal cells and extracellular matrix (ECM) components.
    entities: tumor microenvironment (TME), stromal cells, extracellular matrix (ECM)
    assumptions: The patient's tumor has an intermediate TME, which may influence the tumor's response to treatment.
    consequence: intermediate response to chemotherapy and targeted therapies
    probability: 60
    explanation: The TME can influence the delivery and effectiveness of chemotherapy and targeted therapies, and an intermediate TME may result in an intermediate response to these treatments [5].
    novelty: 0

  - step: 4
    level: organ
    facts: Metastasis is a major factor contributing to cancer-related deaths [6]. The patient's cancer has metastasized, which may affect the overall treatment response.
    entities: metastasis
    assumptions: The patient's metastatic disease may be more difficult to treat than localized disease.
    consequence: decreased overall treatment response
    probability: 80
    explanation: Metastatic disease is generally more difficult to treat than localized disease, as it often involves multiple organs and may be less responsive to therapy [6].
    novelty: 0

  - step: 5
    level: organism
    facts: Optimal standard of care for stage III colon adenocarcinoma typically includes surgery, chemotherapy, and possibly targeted therapy or immunotherapy [7].
    entities: surgery, chemotherapy, targeted therapy, immunotherapy
    assumptions: The patient receives optimal standard of care treatment, which may result in a variable response due to the factors discussed in previous steps.
    consequence: variable progression-free survival
    probability: 80
    explanation: The patient's moderately differentiated tumor, metastasis, and intermediate TME may result in a variable response to treatment, leading to a variable progression-free survival.
    novelty: 0

conclusion:
  outcome: 8-12 months of progression-free survival
  explanation: Based on the patient's age, cancer stage, differentiation, metastasis, and treatment, as well as the examples provided, the expected progression-free survival for this patient under optimal standard of care treatment is estimated to be between 8 and 12 months.

references:
  "[1]": "Downward J. (2003) Nature Reviews Cancer. Targeting RAS signalling pathways in cancer therapy."
  "[2]": "Compton CC. (2007) Archives of Pathology & Laboratory Medicine. Updated protocol for the examination of specimens from patients with carcinomas of the colon and rectum, excluding carcinoid tumors, lymphomas, sarcomas, and tumors of the vermiform appendix."
  "[3]": "Holderfield M, et al. (2014) Nature Reviews Drug Discovery. Targeting RAF kinases for cancer therapy: BRAF-mutated melanoma and beyond."
  "[4]": "Galon J, et al. (2006) Science. Type, density, and location of immune cells within human colorectal tumors predict clinical outcome."
  "[5]": "Quail DF, Joyce JA. (2013) Nature Medicine. Microenvironmental regulation of tumor progression and metastasis."
  "[6]": "Valastyan S, Weinberg RA. (2011) Cell. Tumor metastasis: molecular insights and evolving paradigms."
  "[7]": "Van Cutsem E, et al. (2016) Annals of Oncology. ESMO consensus guidelines for the management of patients with metastatic colorectal cancer."