parameters:
  - age: 56
  - cancer_stage: IV
  - cancer_type: rectal adenocarcinoma
  - tumor_differentiation: moderately differentiated
  - metastasis: yes
  - carcinomatosis: no
  - treatment_plan: optimal standard of care

simulation:
  - step: 1
    level: molecular
    facts: Rectal adenocarcinoma is a type of colorectal cancer that arises from the glandular cells lining the rectum [1]. Moderately differentiated tumors have intermediate levels of cellular differentiation and are associated with intermediate prognosis [2]. The optimal standard of care for stage IV rectal adenocarcinoma typically includes a combination of chemotherapy, radiation therapy, and surgery [3].
    entities: rectal adenocarcinoma, chemotherapy, radiation therapy, surgery
    assumptions: The patient receives the optimal standard of care treatment plan, which effectively targets the tumor and metastatic sites.
    consequence: decreased tumor growth and metastasis
    probability: 80
    explanation: The optimal standard of care treatment plan is designed to target and reduce tumor growth and metastasis, improving the patient's prognosis.
    novelty: 0

  - step: 2
    level: cellular
    facts: Chemotherapy targets rapidly dividing cancer cells, leading to cell death [4]. Radiation therapy damages the DNA of cancer cells, inhibiting their ability to divide and grow [5]. Surgery removes the primary tumor and any accessible metastatic sites [6].
    entities: cancer cells, cell death, DNA damage
    assumptions: The treatment plan effectively targets cancer cells and reduces tumor growth and metastasis.
    consequence: reduced tumor burden and slowed disease progression
    probability: 80
    explanation: The combination of chemotherapy, radiation therapy, and surgery effectively targets cancer cells, leading to reduced tumor burden and slowed disease progression.
    novelty: 0

  - step: 3
    level: organ
    facts: The rectum is part of the gastrointestinal system and plays a role in the storage and elimination of feces [7]. Stage IV rectal adenocarcinoma indicates that the cancer has spread to distant organs [8].
    entities: rectum, gastrointestinal system, distant organs
    assumptions: The treatment plan effectively targets cancer cells and reduces tumor growth and metastasis.
    consequence: improved organ function and reduced symptoms
    probability: 70
    explanation: The reduction in tumor burden and slowed disease progression can lead to improved organ function and reduced symptoms associated with rectal adenocarcinoma.
    novelty: 0

conclusion:
  outcome: 8 months of progression-free survival
  explanation: Based on the provided examples and the patient's characteristics, the expected progression-free survival for this patient under an optimal standard of care treatment plan is approximately 8 months. This estimate is based on the assumption that the treatment plan effectively targets cancer cells and reduces tumor growth and metastasis, leading to improved organ function and reduced symptoms.

references:
  "[1]": "Siegel RL, Miller KD, Jemal A. 2020. CA Cancer J Clin. Colorectal cancer statistics, 2020."
  "[2]": "Compton CC. 2007. Arch Pathol Lab Med. Optimal pathologic staging: defining stage II disease."
  "[3]": "National Comprehensive Cancer Network. 2021. NCCN Clinical Practice Guidelines in Oncology: Rectal Cancer."
  "[4]": "Chabner BA, Roberts TG Jr. 2005. N Engl J Med. Chemotherapy and the war on cancer."
  "[5]": "Baskar R, Lee KA, Yeo R, Yeoh KW. 2012. J Med Radiat Sci. Cancer and radiation therapy: current advances and future directions."
  "[6]": "Glynne-Jones R, Wyrwicz L, Tiret E, et al. 2017. Ann Oncol. Rectal cancer: ESMO Clinical Practice Guidelines for diagnosis, treatment and follow-up."
  "[7]": "Gray H. 1918. Anatomy of the Human Body. The Large Intestine."
  "[8]": "American Joint Committee on Cancer. 2017. AJCC Cancer Staging Manual, 8th Edition."