parameters:
  - age: 58
  - cancer_stage: IV
  - cancer_type: colon adenocarcinoma
  - tumor_location: rectum
  - differentiation: moderately differentiated
  - metastasis: present
  - carcinomatosis: absent
  - treatment: optimal standard of care

simulation:
  - step: 1
    level: molecular
    facts: The RAS-RAF-MEK-ERK pathway is often dysregulated in colon adenocarcinoma, leading to increased cell proliferation and survival [1]. Moderately differentiated tumors have a better prognosis than poorly differentiated tumors [2]. Metastasis is associated with a worse prognosis [3].
    entities: RAS, RAF, MEK, ERK, cell proliferation, cell survival
    assumptions: The optimal standard of care treatment plan targets the dysregulated molecular pathways in the tumor, reducing cell proliferation and survival.
    consequence: decreased cell proliferation and survival in the tumor
    probability: 80
    explanation: The treatment plan is expected to be effective in targeting the dysregulated molecular pathways, leading to a decrease in cell proliferation and survival.
    novelty: 0

  - step: 2
    level: cellular
    facts: Tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes (TILs) are associated with a better prognosis in colon cancer [4]. The presence of TILs can be influenced by the tumor microenvironment and the immune response [5].
    entities: tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes, tumor microenvironment, immune response
    assumptions: The optimal standard of care treatment plan may enhance the immune response against the tumor, promoting the infiltration of TILs.
    consequence: increased infiltration of TILs in the tumor
    probability: 60
    explanation: The treatment plan may improve the immune response against the tumor, leading to an increase in TILs and a better prognosis.
    novelty: 20

  - step: 3
    level: tissue
    facts: Tumor angiogenesis is a key process in tumor growth and metastasis [6]. Anti-angiogenic therapies can be part of the standard of care treatment for colon cancer [7].
    entities: tumor angiogenesis, anti-angiogenic therapies
    assumptions: The optimal standard of care treatment plan includes anti-angiogenic therapies, reducing tumor angiogenesis and metastasis.
    consequence: decreased tumor angiogenesis and metastasis
    probability: 70
    explanation: The treatment plan is expected to include anti-angiogenic therapies, leading to a decrease in tumor angiogenesis and metastasis.
    novelty: 0

  - step: 4
    level: organ
    facts: The liver is a common site of metastasis in colon cancer [8]. Metastasis to the liver can impair liver function and worsen the prognosis [9].
    entities: liver, liver metastasis, liver function
    assumptions: The optimal standard of care treatment plan reduces metastasis, preserving liver function.
    consequence: preserved liver function
    probability: 60
    explanation: The treatment plan is expected to reduce metastasis, leading to preserved liver function and a better prognosis.
    novelty: 0

  - step: 5
    level: organism
    facts: Progression-free survival is influenced by factors such as tumor differentiation, metastasis, and treatment effectiveness [10]. The examples provided show a range of progression-free survival times for patients with similar clinical characteristics.
    entities: progression-free survival, tumor differentiation, metastasis, treatment effectiveness
    assumptions: The optimal standard of care treatment plan, along with the patient's moderately differentiated tumor and absence of carcinomatosis, will result in a progression-free survival time within the range observed in the provided examples.
    consequence: progression-free survival within the range of the provided examples
    probability: 70
    explanation: The treatment plan, tumor differentiation, and absence of carcinomatosis are expected to influence the patient's progression-free survival time, resulting in a time within the range observed in the examples.
    novelty: 0

conclusion:
  outcome: 10 months of progression-free survival
  explanation: Given the patient's moderately differentiated tumor, absence of carcinomatosis, and the effectiveness of the optimal standard of care treatment plan, the expected progression-free survival is estimated to be 10 months, which falls within the range observed in the provided examples.

references:
  "[1]": "Downward J. (2003) Nature Reviews Cancer. Targeting RAS signalling pathways in cancer therapy."
  "[2]": "Compton CC. (2006) Archives of Pathology & Laboratory Medicine. Prognostic factors in cancer."
  "[3]": "Chaffer CL, Weinberg RA. (2011) Science. A perspective on cancer cell metastasis."
  "[4]": "Galon J, et al. (2006) Science. Type, density, and location of immune cells within human colorectal tumors predict clinical outcome."
  "[5]": "Joyce JA, Fearon DT. (2015) Science. T cell exclusion, immune privilege, and the tumor microenvironment."
  "[6]": "Carmeliet P, Jain RK. (2011) Nature. Molecular mechanisms and clinical applications of angiogenesis."
  "[7]": "Van Cutsem E, et al. (2016) Annals of Oncology. ESMO consensus guidelines for the management of patients with metastatic colorectal cancer."
  "[8]": "Gupta GP, Massagué J. (2006) Cell. Cancer metastasis: building a framework."
  "[9]": "Fong Y, et al. (1999) Annals of Surgery. Clinical score for predicting recurrence after hepatic resection for metastatic colorectal cancer."
  "[10]": "Hayes DF, et al. (2012) Journal of Clinical Oncology. Prognostic and predictive factors revisited."