parameters:
  - age: 72
  - cancer_stage: III
  - cancer_location: left side of the colon
  - differentiation: moderately differentiated
  - metastasis: yes
  - carcinomatosis: yes
  - treatment: optimal standard of care

simulation:
  - step: 1
    level: molecular
    facts: The Wnt signaling pathway is often dysregulated in colon adenocarcinoma, leading to increased cell proliferation and tumor growth [1]. Moderately differentiated tumors have a better prognosis than poorly differentiated tumors [2]. Carcinomatosis is associated with a worse prognosis [3].
    entities: Wnt signaling pathway, cell proliferation, tumor growth
    assumptions: The patient's tumor has dysregulated Wnt signaling, leading to increased cell proliferation and tumor growth. The moderately differentiated histology suggests a better prognosis than poorly differentiated tumors, but the presence of carcinomatosis indicates a worse prognosis.
    consequence: The optimal standard of care treatment plan will target the dysregulated Wnt signaling pathway and other molecular processes to reduce tumor growth and metastasis.
    probability: 80
    explanation: The treatment plan is likely to be effective in reducing tumor growth and metastasis due to its targeting of the dysregulated Wnt signaling pathway and other molecular processes.
    novelty: 20

  - step: 2
    level: cellular
    facts: Chemotherapy, such as FOLFOX or FOLFIRI, is a common treatment for stage III colon adenocarcinoma [4]. These treatments target rapidly dividing cancer cells, leading to cell death and reduced tumor growth [5].
    entities: chemotherapy, FOLFOX, FOLFIRI, cancer cells, cell death
    assumptions: The patient receives chemotherapy as part of the optimal standard of care treatment plan, targeting rapidly dividing cancer cells and leading to cell death.
    consequence: The chemotherapy treatment reduces tumor growth and metastasis, improving the patient's prognosis.
    probability: 70
    explanation: Chemotherapy is effective in reducing tumor growth and metastasis by targeting rapidly dividing cancer cells and inducing cell death.
    novelty: 10

  - step: 3
    level: tissue
    facts: Tumor microenvironment plays a crucial role in cancer progression and response to therapy [6]. Inflammation and immune cell infiltration can impact the effectiveness of treatment [7].
    entities: tumor microenvironment, inflammation, immune cell infiltration
    assumptions: The patient's tumor microenvironment, including inflammation and immune cell infiltration, influences the effectiveness of the optimal standard of care treatment plan.
    consequence: The patient's tumor microenvironment may either enhance or hinder the effectiveness of the treatment, impacting the progression-free survival.
    probability: 60
    explanation: The tumor microenvironment can either enhance or hinder the effectiveness of treatment, depending on factors such as inflammation and immune cell infiltration.
    novelty: 40

conclusion:
  outcome: Based on the provided examples and the simulation, the expected progression-free survival for this patient is approximately 8 months.
  explanation: The patient's moderately differentiated tumor and the presence of carcinomatosis suggest a prognosis between examples 2 and 3. The optimal standard of care treatment plan, including chemotherapy, is expected to reduce tumor growth and metastasis, but the tumor microenvironment may influence the effectiveness of the treatment.

references:
  "[1]": "Clevers H, Nusse R. 2012. Cell. Wnt/β-Catenin Signaling and Disease."
  "[2]": "Compton CC. 2007. J Clin Oncol. Optimal Pathologic Staging: Defining Stage II Disease."
  "[3]": "Franko J, et al. 2012. Ann Surg Oncol. Prognostic Value of Peritoneal Cancer Index and Small Bowel Involvement for Patients With Colorectal Carcinomatosis."
  "[4]": "Van Cutsem E, et al. 2016. Ann Oncol. ESMO consensus guidelines for the management of patients with metastatic colorectal cancer."
  "[5]": "Longley DB, et al. 2003. Nat Rev Cancer. 5-Fluorouracil: mechanisms of action and clinical strategies."
  "[6]": "Quail DF, Joyce JA. 2013. Nat Med. Microenvironmental regulation of tumor progression and metastasis."
  "[7]": "Gajewski TF, et al. 2013. Nat Immunol. Cancer immunotherapy strategies based on overcoming barriers within the tumor microenvironment."