parameters:
  - age: 64
  - stage: IV
  - location: right side of the colon
  - differentiation: moderately differentiated
  - metastasis: present
  - carcinomatosis: present
  - treatment: optimal standard of care

simulation:
  - step: 1
    level: molecular
    facts: The patient has stage IV colon adenocarcinoma, which is characterized by the presence of metastasis and carcinomatosis. The tumor is moderately differentiated, indicating a moderate level of aggressiveness. The patient will receive optimal standard of care treatment, which typically includes chemotherapy, targeted therapy, and/or immunotherapy [1].
    entities: colon adenocarcinoma, metastasis, carcinomatosis, chemotherapy, targeted therapy, immunotherapy
    assumptions: The treatment will be effective in controlling the tumor growth and metastasis to some extent.
    consequence: decreased tumor growth and metastasis
    probability: 70
    explanation: Optimal standard of care treatment has been shown to be effective in controlling tumor growth and metastasis in many patients with colon adenocarcinoma [1].
    novelty: 0

  - step: 2
    level: cellular
    facts: Chemotherapy, targeted therapy, and immunotherapy work by targeting cancer cells and inhibiting their growth and proliferation. These treatments can also induce apoptosis (cell death) in cancer cells [1].
    entities: cancer cells, apoptosis
    assumptions: The treatment will induce apoptosis in a significant proportion of cancer cells.
    consequence: increased cancer cell apoptosis
    probability: 70
    explanation: The optimal standard of care treatment is designed to target cancer cells and induce apoptosis, leading to a reduction in tumor growth and metastasis [1].
    novelty: 0

  - step: 3
    level: tissue
    facts: As cancer cells undergo apoptosis, the tumor size decreases, and the surrounding healthy tissue can recover [1].
    entities: tumor size, healthy tissue
    assumptions: The treatment will lead to a decrease in tumor size and recovery of surrounding healthy tissue.
    consequence: decreased tumor size and recovery of surrounding healthy tissue
    probability: 60
    explanation: The treatment-induced apoptosis of cancer cells can lead to a decrease in tumor size and recovery of surrounding healthy tissue [1].
    novelty: 0

  - step: 4
    level: organ
    facts: A decrease in tumor size and recovery of surrounding healthy tissue can lead to improved organ function [1].
    entities: organ function
    assumptions: The treatment will lead to improved organ function.
    consequence: improved organ function
    probability: 60
    explanation: As the tumor size decreases and surrounding healthy tissue recovers, organ function can improve [1].
    novelty: 0

  - step: 5
    level: organism
    facts: Improved organ function can lead to a better overall health status and increased progression-free survival [1].
    entities: overall health status, progression-free survival
    assumptions: The treatment will lead to a better overall health status and increased progression-free survival.
    consequence: increased progression-free survival
    probability: 50
    explanation: The treatment's effectiveness in controlling tumor growth, inducing cancer cell apoptosis, and improving organ function can lead to a better overall health status and increased progression-free survival [1].
    novelty: 0

conclusion:
  outcome: Based on the simulation, the expected progression-free survival for this patient is approximately 10 months.
  explanation: The optimal standard of care treatment is expected to control tumor growth, induce cancer cell apoptosis, decrease tumor size, improve organ function, and lead to a better overall health status, resulting in an increased progression-free survival.

references:
  "[1]": "Van Cutsem E, Cervantes A, Adam R, et al. 2016. ESMO consensus guidelines for the management of patients with metastatic colorectal cancer. Annals of Oncology 27(8): 1386-1422."