parameters:
  - age: 53
  - cancer_stage: IV
  - cancer_type: colon adenocarcinoma
  - tumor_location: right side of the colon
  - differentiation: poorly differentiated
  - metastasis: present
  - carcinomatosis: absent
  - treatment: optimal standard of care

simulation:
  - step: 1
    level: molecular
    facts: The patient has stage IV colon adenocarcinoma, which is characterized by poorly differentiated cells and metastasis. Poorly differentiated cells are more aggressive and have a higher potential for metastasis [1]. The Wnt signaling pathway is often dysregulated in colon adenocarcinoma, leading to increased cell proliferation and tumor growth [2].
    entities: Wnt signaling pathway, cell proliferation, tumor growth
    assumptions: The patient's tumor exhibits dysregulated Wnt signaling, leading to increased cell proliferation and tumor growth.
    consequence: increased tumor growth and metastasis
    probability: 80
    explanation: Dysregulated Wnt signaling is common in colon adenocarcinoma and is associated with increased tumor growth and metastasis [2].
    novelty: 0

  - step: 2
    level: cellular
    facts: The optimal standard of care for stage IV colon adenocarcinoma typically includes chemotherapy, targeted therapy, and immunotherapy [3]. These treatments aim to reduce tumor growth and metastasis by targeting cancer cells and modulating the immune system.
    entities: chemotherapy, targeted therapy, immunotherapy, cancer cells, immune system
    assumptions: The patient receives the optimal standard of care treatment, which effectively targets cancer cells and modulates the immune system.
    consequence: reduced tumor growth and metastasis
    probability: 70
    explanation: The optimal standard of care treatment is designed to reduce tumor growth and metastasis in stage IV colon adenocarcinoma patients [3].
    novelty: 0

  - step: 3
    level: tissue
    facts: The effectiveness of treatment can be influenced by the tumor microenvironment, which includes immune cells, blood vessels, and extracellular matrix components [4]. The tumor microenvironment can promote or inhibit tumor growth and metastasis.
    entities: tumor microenvironment, immune cells, blood vessels, extracellular matrix components
    assumptions: The patient's tumor microenvironment influences the effectiveness of the optimal standard of care treatment.
    consequence: variable treatment effectiveness
    probability: 60
    explanation: The tumor microenvironment can impact the effectiveness of treatment in colon adenocarcinoma patients [4].
    novelty: 20

  - step: 4
    level: organ
    facts: The liver is a common site for colon cancer metastasis [5]. Metastasis to the liver can impair liver function and impact overall patient health.
    entities: liver, metastasis, liver function, patient health
    assumptions: The patient's metastatic colon adenocarcinoma has spread to the liver, impacting liver function and overall health.
    consequence: impaired liver function and overall health
    probability: 50
    explanation: Metastasis to the liver is common in colon adenocarcinoma patients and can impair liver function and overall health [5].
    novelty: 0

  - step: 5
    level: organism
    facts: Progression-free survival in colon adenocarcinoma patients can be influenced by factors such as age, cancer stage, tumor differentiation, and treatment effectiveness [6].
    entities: progression-free survival, age, cancer stage, tumor differentiation, treatment effectiveness
    assumptions: The patient's progression-free survival is influenced by their age, cancer stage, tumor differentiation, and treatment effectiveness.
    consequence: variable progression-free survival
    probability: 60
    explanation: Progression-free survival in colon adenocarcinoma patients is influenced by multiple factors, including age, cancer stage, tumor differentiation, and treatment effectiveness [6].
    novelty: 0

conclusion:
  outcome: 6-10 months of progression-free survival
  explanation: Based on the patient's age, cancer stage, tumor differentiation, and the assumption of optimal standard of care treatment, the expected progression-free survival is estimated to be between 6 and 10 months. This estimate takes into account the potential variability in treatment effectiveness and the influence of the tumor microenvironment.

references:
  "[1]": "Compton CC, Greene FL. 2004. Ann Surg Oncol. The staging of colorectal cancer: 2004 and beyond."
  "[2]": "Clevers H, Nusse R. 2012. Cell. Wnt/β-catenin signaling and disease."
  "[3]": "Van Cutsem E, et al. 2016. Ann Oncol. ESMO consensus guidelines for the management of patients with metastatic colorectal cancer."
  "[4]": "Quail DF, Joyce JA. 2013. Nat Med. Microenvironmental regulation of tumor progression and metastasis."
  "[5]": "Manfredi S, et al. 2006. Ann Surg. Epidemiology and management of liver metastases from colorectal cancer."
  "[6]": "Gill S, et al. 2004. J Clin Oncol. Pooled analysis of fluorouracil-based adjuvant therapy for stage II and III colon cancer: who benefits and by how much?"